Project management isn't just about schedules,
tasks and processes.
People power successful projects.
Project managers help to direct and organize a project,
but they also rely on a team of people to execute it.
That means it's especially important for project managers
to learn how to empower their project teams
and create strong results.
In this video, we'll share seven strategies you can employ
to better support, lead and communicate
with your project team.
Use these strategies to set your team
and project up for success.
First, equip your team with the right resources
by choosing the right people.
Choose your project team based on the unique objectives,
tasks and skills or areas of expertise
required for the project.
Don't assume that the most senior employee
is best equipped for a project.
Instead, review your options carefully
and choose people whose skills, expertise
and interests align most.
Don't forget to consider team members' availability
and bandwidth, too.
The second strategy is to communicate the vision
and greater mission of the project.
Always communicate why a task is important,
how it impacts the success of the project,
and how the project aligns with the company's bigger goals.
Motivate your team by keeping them connected
to the greater vision of the project
and how their role contributes meaningfully to that vision.
However, your goal is not just
to dictate the vision to your team.
Get your team excited about your project's vision.
Aim to get your team's buy-in,
which leads to our third strategy.
The third strategy is to include your team
in important discussions.
Ideally you've selected your project team
based on the unique strengths, skill sets
and areas of expertise that they bring to the project.
Lean on their expertise.
Bring your team into discussions about planning,
execution and monitoring of the project.
They can bring awareness to individual scheduling risks
and weigh in on the best way to approach technical tasks.
You'll enhance team engagement, increase project buy-in,
and make more informed project decisions.
Fourth, empower your team with a clear communication plan.
You might set weekly team status meetings,
email check-ins, or biweekly one-on-one meetings.
No matter what you do, make sure to set clear, open
and consistent lines of communication.
Regular check-ins encourage your team
to communicate when problems arise,
ask for help when they need it, or tackle issues early on.
And a single repository for accessing project information
and documentation will prevent confusion
and give your team one source of truth.
Also, reporting regular progress updates
may even boost team accountability,
which is what the next strategy is all about.
The fifth strategy is to create team accountability.
Always assign responsibility
for a specific project task to one person.
If two people need to work on a task together,
assign one person to serve as the task lead
and take responsibility for its completion.
That will avoid any confusion or ambiguity
about task ownership.
And when you're discussing a task due date,
try to explain why that due date is important
and how it impacts the project's schedule
and the rest of the team.
The sixth strategy is to keep your team focused
on high-priority tasks and free them from unnecessary work.
While project managers often focus on delegating
and monitoring tasks,
this strategy focuses on removing them.
Actively track what each project team member is working on
for your project or others.
Identify low priority or less urgent tasks,
and postpone them or remove them
from the team member's plate.
The final strategy is to break down a project's objectives
and deadlines into a handful of main milestones.
Set deadlines for each milestone,
as well as the group of tasks within each milestone,
to create urgency and motivate your team.
Milestones will also help you monitor
for project issues or possible delays.
All together the project manager
needs to choose the right team, provide clear direction,
motivate and encourage the team, remove roadblocks,
facilitate effective communication,
create team accountability
and effectively manage team resources.
Take care of your team,
and your team will take care of the project.
Finally, don't forget to praise your team
for their hard work and smaller accomplishments
throughout the process.
A little recognition goes a long way.